# Why Do Narcissistic Parents RUIN Sibling Bonds?

our parents leave us too early our
spouse and our children come along too
late our siblings are the only ones who
are there for us our entire ride I love
this quote because our siblings are
supposed to be there always we expect to
grow old together possibly raise our
children together but what happens when
sibling relationships have been tampered
with is it possible that some parents
purposefully destroy their children's
sibling relationships I'm here to say
yes unfortunately this happens and it
happens way too often it's possible my
parent did this to me and today we're
going to talk about it let's dive into
the dark very common topic of sibling
alienation hi I'm Maddie and welcome
back or welcome to my project here I
talk about all things related to a
certain form of severe child
psychological currently known as
parental alienation I went through this
starting around the age of or nine when
my parents were still married towards
the end of their marriage this type of
abuse often happens during a custody
dispute or a divorce and it really
involves one angry parent manipulating
their child to reject their other loving
parent without true justification this
is a healthy loving child bond that is
purposefully destroyed because this
parent is angry and wants to hurt their
ex wants to isolate and control their
child it's very devastating form of that
leaves long lasting effects and that's
why I speak out about it on my project I
usually talk about parental alienation
but did you know that this type of
psychological abuse can take many
different forms not only do we have
parental alienation there is also
sibling alienation extended family
alienation grandparent alienation for
example there's friend alienation
communal alienation but today we're
going to talk about sibling alienation
this is close to home for me but I do
not represent all alienated kids or
speak for all alienated kids I'm also
not an expert I'm just speaking for my
own EXP experiences first let's define
sibling alienation sibling alienation
involves a third party often apparent
manipulating one or both of their
children to reject each other
essentially it's an extreme form of
triangulation when why and how does
sibling alienation occur well sibling
alienation often occurs when a parent
may feel threatened angry insecure or
fearful and they really want to seek
control and power this path illogical
parent will seek control and power by
controlling their children's
relationships with each other this
parent will isolate the siblings which
will weaken them and keep them from
talking about issues in the family for
example this parent will also act
sometimes out of jealousy they can't
stand their children being closer to
each other than they are with them how
will a parent pit siblings against each
other well they're are very ious
different mechanisms alienation tactics
parent will use let's get into a few of
them number one bad mouthing this can be
very covert or this can be more overt
for example a covert way of mad bad
mouthing one sibling to another may be
have you ever thought that your sister
might you know just be really judgmental
and mean or do you think that your
brother has ever lied to you something
moreover might be crying and saying your
sister your brother is just so hurtful
in front of their other sibling which is
going to make that sibling naturally
feel bad for their parent and resentful
or confused at their sibling they might
even lash out at their sibling for
hurting their parent this is very common
to me I actually lived most most of my
life being the main target of my
parents' alienation so I was of course
alienated to different degrees from all
of my siblings I have four younger
brothers I was also the only child
targeted with the parental alienation so
my brothers always had close and happy
loving relationships with my dad
basically there's one of two ways that
parents can alienate their child they
can pit one sibling against the other or
they can pit both siblings against each
other I hope that makes sense I want to
be really clear to lose one's sibling
for no justifiable reason while being
blamed and made to believe it's your
fault is a type of pain I wouldn't wish
on anyone of course from family to
family sibling alienation will often
differ it might even change over time
according to the pathological parents
whims and according to the role that
each of the child are playing in the
family at that moment in time I've
noticed in my family and many others
that it seems whatever role the child
has been given by their pathological
parent where whether that's the favored
child the scapegoated child The Lost
Child the Forgotten child you know
whatever it may be the role that child
is meant to play is going to be
perceived by the siblings as well I'm
going to use my family as an example
here so I was the scapegoat a child in
my family the black sheep could do
nothing right the mess up of the family
you know blamed for everything and all
the problems of the family and what I
noticed growing up from a young age
after the divorce really is that all of
my brothers to various degrees took on
my mom's mentality about me as far as
the scapegoating went so they all began
to slowly adopt my pathological parents
view of who I am which is a very skewed
View and it's it's not true they began
to treat me like the scapegoated child
in the family in addition to my mom
treating me like the scapegoated child
in the family and this does extend to
the favorite a child in my family too he
was he was also treated very well by the
other siblings in contrast so I noticed
that in these family systems the
siblings seem to adopt the perceptions
and the attitudes of that pathological
parent towards the other siblings it's
like the pathological parent sets the
tone for the family here's how you treat
this kid here's how you treat this kid
and everybody follows suit it's pretty
sick it often feels like a lose lose
situation being in one of these families
in a typical sibling relationship what
you put in is generally what you get out
most people can appreciate the value of
being having a close connected
relationship with one sibling with
sibling alienation this is not a typical
sibling relationship ship because there
is an interference by a third party
similar to how a targeted parent might
feel like no matter what they do what
they say any amount of effort they put
in no matter what their child keeps
rejecting them so too the targeted
sibling can never win no matter what
they're stuck in this role they cannot
escape the attitudes of their family the
perception of their siblings
no amount of explaining or trying to
show them who you actually are will
change their minds no amount of trying
to show your sibling that you love them
and want a relationship outside of your
parents
influence that will get your sibling to
understand what your parent is doing
they can't see the manipulation usually
and they fail to understand how a parent
subtly pitting their children against
one another is wrong is cruel is abusive
some siblings May grow up and mature and
develop maybe have children of their own
or have other life circumstances that
help them see the dysfunction in the
family and things might improve with
sibling relationships down the line some
families may have a single scapegoated
child for example that was me and my
family system my parent my entire life
pit my siblings against me there was
nothing I could do to stop this no
matter how many times I tried talking to
that parent and explaining them how
damaging it was for me in my
relationship
to talk badly about me to cry about how
I was hurting them and everything like
that no amount of begging mom please
stop talking bad about me and my
brothers I used to beg it's affecting my
relationships please stop crying about
how much you're hurt by me um she didn't
care or maybe she cared too much I don't
know but she couldn't stand other people
loving me more than I loved her she
couldn't stand anyone else being closer
to me than she was she couldn't stand
anyone else loving me that's why her
love always felt like possession it felt
possessive she had to own me she could
only be the person I loved but in
reality there's enough love to go around
I love a lot of people in my life and I
think a lot of people love me so and I
love watching my family members and
friends and everyone who loves my kids
love on my kids so I don't understand
this but that's how it was other
families might have more than one
scapegoat or the scapegoat might revolve
it might change according to the parents
feelings and whims and emotions
regardless life for the scape coded
sibling often is extremely isolating
painful and full of self-doubt and low
self-esteem especially with so many
different family members bullying you or
buying into this false narrative about
who you are perhaps even spreading lies
or false information or gross
exaggerations that are spun in a way to
destroy your reputation it can be
difficult to maintain any type of
self-worth whatsoever in that environment
imagine your parent siblings and
potentially most of your extended family
members think you're a problem think
you're messed up something is wrong with
you you're not good enough and they
don't accept you they don't consider you
one of them they don't treat you like
part of the family maybe deep down you
too don't feel like you're part of the
family maybe deep down you too don't
feel like part of them feeling like an
outsider in one's own family of origin
has got to be one of the most painful
experiences that I've been through I
can't think of many situations that are
more Lonesome than that out of any group
on this planet you would imagine that
you'd feel most safe and secure with the
people who have raised you what is the
upside here so what what now how do we
survive sibling alienation how do we
stop sibling alienation what lessons can
be learned I won't sugarcoat it this
really sucks it's painful heartbreaking
really a lot of people have been through
parental alienation and sibling
alienation and sometimes siblings mature
and realize what you already have
realized and there is hope but as for
the waiting process the back and the
forth in the meantime the being rejected
constantly here's my advice it probably
applies to targeted parents too first
you can only control your thoughts your
emotions
your perceptions not your sibling just
because your sibling isn't present in
your life now doesn't mean that they're
gone forever they've been under the
destructive influence of Mind Control I
think this gives me a lot more empathy
for my siblings I know it's so difficult
to see what's true what's real what's
not and the manipulation is creates this
Dark Cloud where you can't see straight
so I have lots of empathy for my
brothers even when they do reject me
remember that your sibling wants to love
you deep down they do love you and they
want to express that love but they've
been forced to choose one good thing
that I like to tell myself is what they
believe about me is not true what they
believe about me is not true I have two
other pieces of advice while going
through sibling alienation the second piece
of advice in addition to controlling
your thoughts and perceptions and
emotions is to ask yourself the
following question would you want to be
the person you H you would have to be in
order to to fit in and be accepted by
your family for me the answer was not
just no it was heck no no way no thank
you I'd rather die than be the person
I'd have to be to fit in to my family of
origin why because that person would not
be me I wouldn't be true to myself if I
were molding myself into the person I
had to be to fit into my family been
there done that tried that 20 years
never worked never will so if you were
put in a scapegoat role growing up
please know that means that there is
something fierce inside of you that sets
you apart and that fierceness inside of
you threatens the system that's why
you've been given the scapegoated role
to begin with and that's beautiful I
think my final piece of device as the
targeted sibling you might have also
been the scapegoat a child but you have
the best chance at ending the cycle do
you realize how amazing that is a lot of
your siblings your alienated siblings
they might go on to repeat the cycle
themselves or find themselves alienated
from their own kids find themselves in a
relationship with a toxic person because
that's all they know that's the road map
of love
relationships and you have the chance
now to change things for not only your
children but your children's children
your great grandchildren the rest of the
human race to come from your family of
origin not only have you EXP experience
the worst of the abuse opening your eyes
to the dysfunction but there is also
something in you that rejects the
dysfunction no more many people maybe
even most people will grow up to repeat
their parents mistakes and behaviors
some may identify that something is off
with their family they may even identify
that it's but they might also fail to
change anything moving forward or stand
up to Injustice the minority of people
both identify and reject the dysfunction
in their families of origin this is why
ending the generational patterns the
generational behaviors and Trauma is
often such a lonely process because so
few people have the courage to not only
identify it and admit to themselves that
their parent has mistreated them but
also say I'm not okay with this and set
boundaries not many people have the
strength to do that and remember if you
feel guilty about putting up no contact
with your parent who is actually and
neglectful to say that's okay to accept
their mistreatment of you is actually
enabling your parent to continue their
bad behavior in a lot of ways it's a
loving act of kindness to tell your
parent I'm not going to allow you in my
life if you treat me and the people I
love this way it's an act of kindness
because you're you're not enabling them
to be a mean and and hurtful person I
hope that makes sense if you're watching
this video and you could relate to
anything that I've said please like the
video and subscribe to my channel make
sure you have the Bell notification
turned on and leave a comment down below
what do you think of all of this have
you been an alienated sibling have you
been a triangulated sibling did you find
this insightful or helpful let me know
in the comments if you'd like to hear
more about other lesser known forms of
Parental alienation like grandparent
alienation or extended family alienation
I can personally attest to quite
honestly every form of alienation in
one's personal relationship so I'd be
happy to discuss this more I'm laughing
I think as a coping mechanism if you've
been alienated from one of your parents
it's pretty common you've been alienated
from your siblings and others as well
and I'm so sorry you've been through
this but there is life on the other side
of alienation I promise you if you
haven't reached out to that targeted
parent yet that parent you lost time
with that parent you believed negative
things about that you were scared of and
angry at please consider reaching out to
them when I reached out to my dad and
started to repair the relationship with
him that's when my healing Journey
really began and I'm so grateful to have
him in my life now thank you so much for
watching and I'll see you next time bye